# The Revelation of God

The Revelation of God is like a curtain, which is made to be pulled back, to
reveal the Loved One you have longed for all your life, even if you never knew
her name. It exists because it is not meet and seemly that such pure beauty
should be revealed to all eyes, avaricious and vulgar. The heart must be
tested, and shown true.

As a veil, it should be seen as a veil. That is, look for the point of turning
behind each word, to find how it leads back and connects to Him. It reveals
what it conceals.

# Taking the more difficult road

A person is walking along and they reach a canyon and across the canyon is a
bridge, but there's also a path leading down, into the canyon.

So your self divides in two.

One self walks straight across the bridge and another goes into the canyon.

The one who goes into the canyon experiences great hardships as he goes down
but he finds a beautiful grotto and a waterfall and it takes him a great
length of time.

But as he makes camp and he sees the sunset's rays passing through the
waterfall he is struck dumb by the beauty of it.

And then he wakes, and he passes over rivers, valleys, hills, each with its
own unique beauty, its own unique life, shapes, forms, colors.

There's so many things that he sees. It make take time, the sun may be hot, he
may sweat, he may find it difficult, but each time that he rests and he hears
the still purity of the peacefulness of the valley. He listens to the birds
and he sees the water passing by, he counts the flowers, he enjoys the warmth
of the sun.

So that finally when he reaches the stairs on the other side, a kind of sorrow
strikes him. It falls over him as he realizes that it must end, and that this
canyon was a magical place, and there were many many wonders to see.

Finally he reaches up to the top of the canyon wall and he meets his other
self. And he sees that his other self is somewhat smug. Pleased with himself
for having walked such a straight and direct path. For having made the
destination in such a quick and orderly fashion.

But he does not know who is the richer. It was never speed, it was never
achievement that mattered. It was the substance of what was seen.

# Evident and manifest qualities

I've been thinking about lately about the qualities we aspire to achieve
during our lives, and how these qualities seem to divide roughly into two
basic categories, the dividing line between which is the event of our death.

On the one hand are what I'll call "evident" qualities, or those which are
easily identified and as such most generally valued. They include knowledge,
wealth, strength, good health, freedom, wisdom, reknown, achievement,
infuence, etc. All of these have tremendous value before death, but seem to
have little after. For example, whatever we gain of knowledge or wisdom in
this life will seem like ignorance in the next, in much the same way that an
adult regards his own thoughts from childhood with a bit of embarassment and
disdain.

The main point here is that the value of evident qualities is highly dependent
on context. Knowledge is only valuable if the context is one of ignorance.
When the "veils are lifted", however, what couldn't be seen before will become
as clear as day, in which case our scraps of knowledge pale into
insignificance in the face of clear fact.

The other group of qualities I think of as "subtle" qualities, because
although they are mostly thought of as positive, they can be easily overlooked
by those who do not value them -- perhaps even seen as weakness by some. These
would include purity of heart, love, freedom of spirit, recognition of one's
powerlessness, etc.
