# Going off the rails, slowly

An observation on Zen, as I see it spoken of in this community and online.

It's as though a new plant, growing in the forest, suddenly became aware of
itself and how different it is from everything else. Now obsessed with its
differences, it begins to enumerate them, define them, magnify them. Pretty
soon it knows what it is, and what other things aren't, and this is its world.

Enter Zen. Without saying that the plant is not a plant, Zen breaks down the
names and divisions, until the plant begins to see something that was
invisible before, since it's everywhere and nowhere: the ecosystem as a whole.
Of course, the ecosystem doesn't exist in any one place, you can't point to
it, you can't see it operating, but the whole organism of the forest is this
ecosystem, and everything is just a momentary part of its operation. This is
why the plant is there, its role, and why it must also leave at some point. In
this view, life and death are not in conflict, they aren't even really
divided. There is just the great ongoing life of it all, ever-changing, always
the same.

Enter Zen practitioners. While Zen implies a degree of selflessness such that
the plant sees its own being as both essential to its awareness (being where
its see things from) and completely inessential -- sort of the way a body is
necessarily made up of cells, but no one cell is more "the body" than any
other -- Zen practitioners I've read about seem to have gone off the rails at
some point, rather slowly. Instead of the plant unifying with the undefinable
ecosystem, it instead uproots itself, finds a lonely mountain or social
enclave apart from the majority, and roots itself there to stare at a wall and
contemplate nothing at all. Being empty of thought is "The Way", even if the
tenth ox painting sees you back at the tavern.

I just wouldn't expect Zen to lead anyone to think they were apart from me, or
better than me, or beyond me. I would expect them to know themselves *as* me
-- our real me -- without much thought needed for it to be obvious.
