---
title: Descriptive interpretation
tags: journal
---

There are certain mystical passages in the Bahá'í Writings that can be read
quite differently if one shifts from a prescriptive, self-oriented
interpretation, to a descriptive, Revelation-oriented one.

One example of this is detachment, about which I
wrote [in another post](/2005/02/detachment-and-desire/); another, I think, is
the following Hidden Word:

> O Son of Earth! Know, verily, the heart wherein the least remnant of envy
  yet lingers, shall never attain My everlasting dominion, nor inhale the
  sweet savors of holiness breathing from My kingdom of sanctity.

For many years I'd read this Hidden Word in what seems like the obvious way:
until my heart is purified from all envy, I cannot attain God's everlasting
dominion. Since this is quite difficult to achieve, it makes that kingdom feel
very far away, and nearly impossible to reach.

But what if it's not *prescribing* a condition *I* must achieve, but is
*describing* the nature of that kingdom, by depicting the character of one who
has recognized it?

If the Revelation of God's Manifestation is the most valuable thing in
existence, how can one who has the most valuable thing envy anything at all?
Therefore, even "the least remnant of envy" becomes proof that one has not
truly recognized it -- a recognition necessary to perceive the gift it
contains -- rather than indicting the unworthiness of one who still seeks it.

Or in the example on detachment, Bahá'u'lláh writes:

> Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá who followeth his
  mundane desires, or fixeth his heart on things of the earth. He is My true
  follower who, if he come to a valley of pure gold, will pass straight
  through it aloof as a cloud, and will neither turn back, nor pause. Such a
  man is, assuredly, of Me.
  
Prescriptively interpreted as making a statement about the individual, it
seems to be saying we must achieve a nearly impossible standard to become one
of the people of Bahá; but descriptively intepreted as a statement clarifying
the nature of Bahá'u'lláh's Revelation, it could be read as saying: So great
is His Cause that any man who truly recognizes it will have no room in his
heart for anything the world might contain; if even the least shred of desire
should remain, then he has not recognized it.
